If Statements

Where: Parser.ssl, IfStmt rule which is called by Block after consuming 'if'
token. 
How: Implementing a call to block, which includes a surrounding begin and 
end in the output token stream, makes our if statement implementation
non invasive in the semantic phase and successfully constructs if statements
housed in QUST specified statement braces. The if statement call from block
outputs .ifStmt, handles the if expression and outputs it's end, then expects '{', then a call to block handles all declarations and statements
nested inside, and concludes with a '}' closing brace. 
Why: This implementation is non invasive, and the test trace outputs show
the the remaining begin and end outputs. 

If-Else Statements
Where: Parser.ssl, IfStmt rule which is called by Block after consuming 'if'
token. 
How: Implementing a call to block, which includes a surrounding begin and 
end in the output token stream, makes our if statement implementation
non invasive in the semantic phase and successfully constructs if statements
housed in QUST specified statement braces. The if statement call from block
outputs .ifStmt, handles the if expression and outputs it's end, then expects
 '{', then a call to block handles all declarations and statements
nested inside, and concludes with a '}' closing brace. This is then followed
by a choice statement which detects the 'else' keyword followed by a '{' and 
outputs .sElse and then handles the associated declaration and statements 
by once againimplementing block. 
Why: This implementation is non invasive, and the test trace outputs show
the the remaining begin and end outputs. This implementation is also simple
with minimized repition due to the implementation of the Block rule call.

Else-If Statements

Where: Parser.ssl, IfStmt rule which is called by Block after consuming 'if'
token. 
How: Please see If-Else Statement documentation above first. In the same
choice rule detecting the else, an addition 'if' detection is added after 'else'
which triggers a recursive ifStmt rule call that handles the else if QUST
implementation as a nested if statement preceeded by an else. 
Why: In this method, we will not have to implement else if in the semantic 
phase since it will not be seen. This reduction in modification is an efficient
method that satisifies the QUST language Else-If clause. 

While Statements

Where: Parser.ssl, whileStmt rule which is called by Block after consuming 'while'
token. 
How: Implementing a call to block, which includes a surrounding begin and 
end in the output token stream, makes our while statement implementation
non invasive in the semantic phase and successfully constructs while statements
housed in QUST specified statement braces. The while statement call from block
outputs .WhileStmt, handles the expression and outputs it's end, then expects
 '{', then a call to block handles all declarations and statements
nested inside, and concludes with a '}' closing brace.
Why: Using a call to block handles the begin and end conditions while expression
handles the while expression. Similar to if, the PT parser is modified in a 
minor way to handle QUST braces and syntax. 

Loop Statement

Where: Parser.ssl, loopStmt rule which is called by Block after consuming 'loop'
token. 
How: Two calls to block specifying the begin and end of each block inside the loop statement,
while the begin and end braces of the loop and break statement are expected
to be handled in the loop rule itself. Calling block before
and after the break if statment seperates the statements and declarations 
inside the loop braces. The break if statement on the other hand when detected
calls expression and expects a semicolon afterwards as specified in QUST guide.
Why: Break if can appear at the start, end or middle of declarations and statements
in the loop statement, so it is checked for after a call to block handling all 
above and a call to block follows the check to handle all statements afterwards, any
extra break ifs or would not be consumed and error recovery would be initiated, this 
is also true for a loop without an end condition. 

Optional Semicolons
Where: Parser.ssl, other statements specified by Professor Cordy (if, loop, while, match)
How: Choice at the end of the associated statement rules that checks for semicolon after the
end brace, consumes it and outputs a null statement, otherwise it does not output anything. 
Why: In QUST, it is optional to have a semicolon following other statement braces, and a 
nullstmt output is reccomended for ignoring it. 

Short-Form Assignment Statements '+=' and '-='

Where: Parser.ssl, AssignmentOrCallstmt Rule
How: Implemented two extra choices inside the pre-existing choice block so 
'+=' and '-=' outputs the .sIdentifier token twice instead of once  before
calling @Expression and outputing .sExpnEnd, maintaining the semantic
output to be the same as regular assignment (e.g i += 10 => i = i + 10)
Why: Qust supports short-form assignment while PT Pascal does not. This 
implementation is non invasive, help minimize the changes needed in the 
semantic analyzer phase.

Call Statement
Where: Parser.ssl, CallStmt Rule
How: Modified rule to always check for '(' in the beginning and ')' at the end
adds additional loop choice to check for option 'mut' keyword before each param
expression. Remove choice with no '(' ')' in CallStmt Rule
Why: Qust call statement must be followed by '()' even if the function called
accepts no parameters, where as in PT Pascal the '()' is optional. Parameters 
passed into the call statment in Qust can also be 'mut' hence the extra choice
for checking mutable expressions.
